                               PNEUMONIA
                        ITS CARE AND PREVENTION


Pneumonia is an inflammation of the lungs. Despite all the progress
recently made in the treatment of the disease, it remains among the
most common causes of death. Pneumonia is always a serious matter, and
should be regarded as an emergency calling for immediate medical care.

The inflammation of the lungs may be due to one of a number of
different kinds of germ, but the bacteria known as pneumococci cause
about four cases out of every five. There are several varieties, or
types, of pneumococci and the treatment may vary with the type. Your
doctor has at his command some new drugs[A] but for some types of
pneumonia he may combine the drug with a curative serum.

[A] The different members of this new family of drugs, sulfanilamide,
sulfapyridine, sulfathiazol, etc. are used depending upon the nature of
the pneumonia.

If the inflammation is due to one of the various other germs that cause
the remaining fifth of the pneumonia cases, still other treatment may
be needed. It is clear, then, that your physician should be called
promptly when pneumonia is suspected so that he may have the laboratory
tests made that will tell him with what kind of germ infection he has
to deal. Then he can decide what kind of treatment to employ.


                        Pneumonia Is Contagious

Pneumonia appears to be spread from person to person by contact, so it
is regarded as a communicable disease. As it is contagious, the spread
of infection can be stopped if precautions are taken to prevent the
transfer of the infectious material from the sick to the well. The
secretions from the nose and throat of persons sick with pneumonia,
or convalescing from the disease, usually carry the germs that cause
it. The transfer may take place through direct contact with these
secretions, or inhaling droplets of moist sputum expelled by the sick
person while coughing or sneezing.

Pneumonia is no respecter of persons. It may attack tiny babies, adults
in the prime of life, or elderly people: so everyone must be on guard.
This is especially true in late winter and early spring when the
disease is most likely to occur.

Pneumonia often begins during or just after an attack of the common
cold, grippe, whooping cough, or measles, and after surgical operations,
especially those upon the chest. In other conditions, such as unusual
and prolonged fatigue or exposure to bad weather resulting in a thorough
chilling, the chance of infection is increased.


                       Early Signs of Pneumonia

In most cases of pneumonia the disease is readily recognized. There
is often a preceding cold, but the onset of the pneumonia is usually
abrupt, with sharp pain in the side, fever, a cough, a sense of
chilliness or evident chills, and the expectoration of sputum streaked,
or tinged, with blood.

[Illustration: _Immediate medical and nursing care are vital in
pneumonia._]

If you should ever have any of these early signs of pneumonia, get
promptly into bed and stay there. Have your doctor called without a
momentâ€™s delay. You will improve your chance of a quick recovery if
you give him the opportunity to determine the cause of your infection
before it is many hours old. Remember: the longer the disease exists
before treatment is begun, the more difficult it may prove to cure.


                           Finding the Cause

The exact cause of the inflammation can be determined only by a
laboratory examination of specimens of sputum or blood. Fortunately,
in most sections of the country, diagnostic services are now readily
available.

The kind of germ is determined earliest by examining specimens of
sputum.[B] Though the patient may have some difficulty in raising
sputum, enough for laboratory needs can almost always be obtained if
its importance is explained to him. The expectorated material should
come from the lungs, and should be as free as possible from mixture
with saliva and nasal secretions. The sputum can be collected in
any clean, wide-mouthed bottle, or a cardboard sputum box, and sent
without delay to the nearest laboratory. Within a short time a report
is returned to your doctor advising him of the findings of the
examination. If pneumococci have been found, the special type will be
named.

[B] Blood specimens are also of importance in diagnosis of the disease
and determining the course of treatment.

[Illustration: _Laboratories are now equipped to make prompt and
reliable examinations of sputum specimens._]


